of coronavirus so just breaking news
coming into us within the past few
seconds the Prime Minister has been
under the care of doctors in a hospital
in London and he is being now admitted
into intensive care with those
persistent symptoms of coronavirus he
has been in hospital since Sunday
evening we were expecting him to say
stay in the hospital for a second night
in this hospital st. Thomas's hospital
but we heard earlier on from his tweet
that he was doing well and we heard also
from Dominic Rob earlier on that he was
in still very much in charge of what was
happening now Laura Kunz Berg our
political editor joins me live on the
line now Laura a very worrying
development now about the British prime
minister hello Carol yes just in the
last few minutes it's been and we've had
an official statement from Downing
Street after a very very little
information through the day that at
around 7 o'clock tonight a Berlitz
handed the Prime Minister was taken to
intensive care the statement makes clear
that he had you know is he's receiving
excellent care and he wants to thank all
the people at the NHS but something
important has changed and that he's now
in intensive care
rather than being looked for I looked
after by medics and he's felt it
necessary to ask the Foreign Secretary
Dominick Rob to deputize for him where
needs be now that's a completely
different message to what we've had in
the last sort of 18 hours or so when it
was continually the Prime Minister's in
touch she's still in charge everything
is sort of absorbed with almost this
business as usual clearly now the Prime
Minister being intensive care changes
everything his condition as I understand
it worsened over the course of this
afternoon he's still conscious we're
told but he's been moved to intensive
care
as a precaution in case he requires
ventilation as necessary to get through
they've filner
really difficult news to hear Laura we
heard your question actually earlier on
during that daily press briefing and you
asked whether if the Prime Minister
whether if he was not well enough to
come out of hospital was he well enough
to govern the country as you were saying
the government very much saying that he
was in charge of course that is
absolutely it cannot be sustainable at
this with this latest development well
that's right and the as I say with those
sort of very sporadic small bits of
information that we had through the day
it seems some of the somewhat of a
better vacuums to be honest and talking
to people in government who would
normally be quite forthcoming about what
was going on with a very very rigid
script just that he was in good spirits
and he was working and you know we're
sort of cracking on as best he could be
and he was said to be in good spirits
that changed very dramatically in the
last at 10 minutes but also for
something slightly more puzzling whereas
at the press conference earlier this
afternoon the foreign secretary said he
haven't spoken to the Prime Minister
since Saturday now that seems strange
that seems rather odd given that Dominic
Moorhead was meant to be taking charge
the Prime Minister and the Prime
Minister's continually in touch clearly
at that point the situation was already
getting worse and as we then laterally
discover existed just after 8 o'clock
the Prime Minister has in fact been
moved to intensive care now we know that
from a spokesperson from number 10 that
the Prime Minister is receiving
excellent care and they want to pass on
their thanks to all the NHS staff for
their hard work and their dedication and
as you were saying he's been in st.
Thomas's Hospital in London since Sunday
evening of course it's very difficult
difficult situation giving the
seriousness of coronavirus itself but in
terms of the detail of his condition we
we just simply don't know last night
about 24 hours ago that he had he was
just having routine tests and I but
we've struggled to get dentistry to tell
us through the day what those tests were
for you know it's been more than 10 days
11 days that he's had persistent
symptoms of coronavirus and high
temperature and a persistent cough all
we know at the moment is that his
condition worsened over the course of
this afternoon
this decision has been made as a
precaution to him being intensive care
tonight so clearly very serious
situation for the prime minister's an
extreme emphasizing that this bill is a
precaution but it's a huge moment I mean
when you take it's a spittle last night
that was obviously a real milestone and
that this the way this whole crisis has
unfolded and you know so many people who
weren't right in the house of government
have been hit by this but to have the
Prime Minister in intensive care at a
time when the country is trying to
respond to an emergency the government
is trying to get through an emergency
for the nation's health and the economy
it really is a worrying development and
I think something that will come as a
surprise I was talking to the cabinet
ministers about this this morning and
after them sounded quite relaxed once in
a while glad you want to go and have a
proper rest
he's been a bit like an alpha male and
she refused to stop working but this
obviously is a very different situation
that extremely different situation Laura
we see and you talk about him
continuously working just six hours ago
I'm just on his Twitter feed he was
tweeting about the advice last night on
the advice of my doctor Boris Johnson
tweeted I went into hospital for some
routine tests I'm still experiencing
coronavirus symptoms I'm in good spirits
and keeping in touch with my team as we
work together to fight this virus and
keep everyone safe so only six hours ago
was he very much
keeping everybody up-to-date as he has
been over the few days when we initially
heard about his symptoms with those
little video messages look the way we're
watching now from a couple of days ago
so very difficult now to understand that
he is now in intensive gab for anybody
just joining us just to restate that
Boris Johnson the British prime minister
has been admitted into intensive care a
spokesperson for number-10 saying that
he is receiving excellent care and
passing on thanks to all the NHS staff
for their hard work and their dedication
but Laura this for the United Kingdom we
heard the Queen making a statement of
the nation just yesterday this
we'll be this is a devastating blow it's
certainly a very sad turn in all of this
of course and rather an unexpected one
and we will just have to see in the
coming days I mean you know dentistry
it's firm tonight this is happened as a
precaution it doesn't you know being
more than necessarily then they've said
that they've moved him in order that if
he requires ventilation as the condition
progresses he's in the right place to do
that but it obviously is a very curious
moment and we you know we don't know
what comes next
others and the prime minister has asked
Dominick grab the solid secretary
actually to deputize through him giving
up any sort of pretends that he's
somehow able to mind the shop when his
baton was filming and we heard Dominick
Rob take on this daily press statement
that we're seeing every day now since
since lockdown we're seeing these daily
press conferences Dominick Rob gave his
today I know you were you posed the
first question in this daily press
conference and he wants to show that the
Prime Minister was very much in control
that situation will inevitably change
but Dominick Rob now the man at the helm
of the British government for the time
being Dominick grab you as the official
titles or just respond sexually but as
first secretary of state max in the UK
that means someone's basically as a sort
of space factor and deputy is there like
the official understudy for him
obviously this is also at the huge
moments he already this morning chaired
the coronavirus daily sort of emergency
meeting that they've been holding every
morning at 9:15 but at that point it
really didn't seem as if he would
actually be taking on some of the roles
now there was some cat for this
afternoon amongst or EMPs that I was
talking to who were unhappy that the
Prime Minister wasn't stepping back
further and in order to actually to get
better now of course that choice has
actually been taken out of his hands so
when it comes to the way that because
it's important to stress that we don't
have a Deputy Prime Minister in this
country as you were outlining the the
role of Dominic Rob but we Boris Johnson
didn't choose a deputy so that I guess
open it shows how in control he was and
wanted to be seen to be but in a
situation like this it complicates what
is already a terribly complicated
situation yes although in the UK it
doesn't always work you know there isn't
sort of strictly speaking there isn't a
vice-president role or anything like
that there tends to be somebody who sort
of acts as if we'd call this sort of
stage fact on p.m. there is that rather
grand sounding title the first secretary
of state somebody who is able to
deputize in particular circumstances
that Prime Minister's Questions for
example you're right it is a sort of
quirk of British you know British
politics but there isn't this sort of a
special deputy position in the way that
there is in other countries